1. JavaScript : is widely used in web development to create interactive and dynamic websites.
JavaScript is a versatile, dynamically typed programming language that brings life to web pages by making them interactive. 
It is used for building interactive web applications, supports both client-side and server-side development, and integrates seamlessly with HTML, CSS, and a rich standard library. 
Client Side: On the client side, JavaScript works along with HTML and CSS. 
HTML adds structure to a web page, CSS styles it, and JavaScript brings it to life by allowing users to interact with elements on the page, 
such as actions on clicking buttons, filling out forms, and showing animations. JavaScript on the client side is directly executed in the user's browser.
Server Side: On the Server side (on Web Servers), JavaScript is used to access databases, file handling, and security features to send responses, to browsers.
2. Frameworks : like React and Angular make front-end development faster, while Node.js is used for building server-side applications.
3. Command to run JS file : node basic.js
4. Data Types : In JS, its not needed to specify data types like string, int, or boolean — JavaScript detects the type automatically when you assign a value.
i. Primitive Data Types - Numberic Type [int, bigint] and Non Numeric type [String, NULL, Boolean, Undefined, Symbol]
ii. Non Primitive Data Types - Object, Arrays, Functions, Regular Expression, Data Object
5. Variables : A variable is like a container that holds data that can be reused or updated later in the program. 
In JavaScript, a variable is used to store data values — like numbers, text, or objects.
In JavaScript, variables are declared using the keywords var, let, or const.
var Keyword : The var keyword is used to declare a variable. It has a function-scoped or globally-scoped behaviour. Reassigning is allowed.
var → Old version of let; avoid it unless maintaining legacy code.
var n = 5;
console.log(n);
let Keyword : The let keyword is introduced in ES6, has block scope and cannot be re-declared in the same scope. Value can be updated but can not redeclare.
let → For values that can change (like counters or user input).
let  n= 10;
n = 20; // Value can be updated
// let n = 15; //can not redeclare
console.log(n)
const Keyword : The const keyword declares variables that cannot be reassigned. It's block-scoped as well.
const → For values that shouldn’t change (like API URLs or fixed config).
const n = 100;
// n = 200; This will throw an error
console.log(n)
5. Immutable: In programming, an immutable object is one whose state cannot be changed after it is created. 
 This is in contrast to a mutable object, which can be modified at any point after creation.
6. Primitive Datatypes : Primitive datatypes represent single values and are immutable.
7. Non-Primitive Datatypes : Non-primitive types are objects and can store collections of data or more complex entities.
7.1. Object: Represents key-value pairs.
7.2. Array: Represents an ordered list of values.
7.3. Function: Represents reusable blocks of code. Functions in JavaScript are reusable blocks of code designed to perform specific tasks. 
They allow you to organize, reuse, and modularize code.
8. == (Double Equals) → Loose Equality : It compares only values, not data types. If types are different, JavaScript automatically converts (type coercion) before comparing.
9. === (Triple Equals) → Strict Equality : It compares both value and data type. No type conversion — both sides must be exactly the same.
10. null : The 'null' data type defines a special value that represents nothing, or empty value.
11. undefined : A variable that has been declared but not initialized with a value is automatically assigned the undefined value. 
It means the variable exists, but it has no value assigned to it.
12. JavaScript Operators : 
Arithmetic Operators: perform mathematical calculations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, etc. eg. + - * /
Assignment operators: are used to assign values to variables. They can also perform operations like addition or multiplication while assigning the value. eg. +=, *=
Comparison operators: compare two values and return a boolean (true or false). They are useful for making decisions in conditional statements. eg. >= ===
Logical operators: are mainly used to perform the logical operations that determine the equality or difference between the values. eg. && || AND OR
Comma Operator: (,) mainly evaluates its operands from left to right sequentially and returns the value of the rightmost operand. 
Unary operators: operate on a single operand (e.g., increment, decrement).
Relational Operators, BigInt Operators, String Operators, Chaining Operator
13. Ternary operator: is a shorter form of if-else statement. The ternary operator is a shorthand for conditional statements.
const age = 18;
const status = age >= 19 ? "Adult" : "Minor";
console.log(status);
Explanation : age >= 19 → This is the condition., age is 18, 18 >= 19 → false, ? "Adult" : "Minor" → This is called the ternary operator.
Syntax: condition ? valueIfTrue : valueIfFalse, Since the condition is false, the value after : is used., So status will be "Minor".
14. Control Statements : Conditional Statement and Iterative Statement : if statement, if-else statement, switch statement, ternary operator, for loop, while loop, and do-while loop
break; // stops further execution, default executes if no case matches.
15. Array : An array is a special variable or container that can hold multiple values at once, instead of storing each value in a separate variable.
Each value in the array has a unique index number (starting from 0) so you can easily access or change it. An array is like a list or collection of items stored together in order.
An array is a data structure that stores a collection of elements (values or variables), each identified by an index or key.
16. JavaScript Array Methods : JavaScript provides a wide variety of array methods. These methods allow you to add, remove, find, and transform array elements with ease.
eg - .length(), .toString(), .join(), delete(), .concat(), .push(), .unshift(), .pop(), .shift(), .splice(), slice(), map(), filter(), reduce(), reverse(), value(),
17. Function : Parameter → name (placeholder inside the function).
Argument → "Alice" (real value given at call time).
18. Types of Function : Named Function and Anonymous Function, Constructor Function, async Function, callback function.
19. Object : An object is a dynamic data structure that stores related data as key-value pairs, where each key uniquely identifies its value. 
Properties can be added, changed, or removed at any time.
20. Object Constructor : A constructor function is a special type of function in JavaScript that is used to create and initialize objects.
It is automatically executed when a new object is created from a class.
21. Class Getters and Setters : We can use getter and setter methods to get the value of an object and set the value of an object.  99
We can use the get keyword for the getter method and the set keyword for the setter methods
22. Access modifiers : in JavaScript play a significant role in controlling the visibility and accessibility of class members.
Members marked as public can be accessed from anywhere. Public members are the default in JavaScript classes.
Members marked as private are only accessible within the class itself. Private members are marked with the # symbol.
Members marked as protected are accessible within the class and its subclasses. 
23. Callback : In JavaScript, a callback function is a function you pass to another function — and it runs after the first one finishes.
24. Promises : Handles success/failure of async work
25. Async/Await : async function that handles asynchronous tasks. await tells JS to wait until the promise finishes before going to the next step.
26. Event Loop : The event loop is like a manager in a restaurant who makes sure that your orders (tasks) are handled in order, and no one waits unnecessarily.